- [Instructor] Java 11 introduced many new features
to the language,
making it a pretty exciting release for Java developers.
Let's take a look at some of the new methods
and classes this version introduced.
We'll start by exploring some new methods that were added
to the string class.
Here you can see in our isBlank method
that we are trimming a string,
and then checking to see if it's empty.
This is a common validation used to check for empty strings
and for strings that are entirely white space.
It got much easier to perform this check in Java 11,
because the isBlank method was added
to the string interface.
Moving on to the strip method.
You'll notice that its implementation calls the trim method
and it may make you wonder, "What's wrong with trim?"
Well, we can find that answer in one of our unit tests.
Here, you'll notice that I add Unicode white space
to the beginning and end of this string.
Now, if we were to execute this test,
you'll notice that it fails
and that's because the trim method does not handle Unicode.
And that's the benefit of using the new strip method.
The new strip method is Unicode-aware,
and it will cause Unicode white space to be removed
from the beginning and end of a string.
Now, there's two other variants.
The first is stripLeading,
and this is going to remove the white space
from the beginning of a string.
And then, there's also stripTrailing
and this will remove white space from the end of a string.
All right, moving on.
We'll take a look at two more methods on the string class.
The first is the repeat method.
You'll notice we pass in a string and then an integer
to our repeat method here.
And then for the value of the integer,
we will perform a number of iterations.
And in each iteration within this for loop,
we're going to concatenate the string
and append it to itself.
So, this is a one liner now in Java 11.
All we need to do is use the new repeat method
on the string class.
And the repeat method accepts an argument
that is of type integer,
that specifies the number of times
we would like to append the string to itself.
And then we get a new string.
All right, and then finally,
we're going to take a look at lines.
So, here you can see that I'm splitting a string
for each new line character found within it.
So essentially, we're going to get an array
that contains each line in our string,
and then we're streaming out those lines in the array.
Once again, this is a one liner in Java 11.
All we need to do is call the lines method on the string.
All right, so, with those in place,
let's go execute our test and you can see that we passed.
I'm going to go ahead, I'll close these files.
And then we can take a look at some more features
within Java 11
and these features are going to be on the files class.
So, I'll open both the class and its test.
And then we can get started.
Java 11 made it much easier to work with text files.
You've probably seen this code that writes texts to a file
and read text from a file, a hundred times.
It's pretty clumsy.
We're working with readers and writers
and we got to make sure we close things out.
Well, in Java 11, these became one liners.
We're going to go ahead and remove this implementation.
And then, we're going to use the writeString method
on the files object, in order to write a text file.
Now, if we take a look at this method,
you'll see that it wants us to provide a path
as the first argument.
So, we can use the path's object in its get method.
And I'm just going to create a new file
named, example.txt,
and then we'll move on to the second argument.
And this is the text that we want to place in the file.
And we can see that's being passed
into our writeString method and we'll just pass it along.
Finally, the last argument that we need to provide
is an option for how we want to write the file.
So, I'm going to use the StandardOpenOption
and its create option.
And this basically says, to recreate the file every time,
even if it doesn't exist.
So, that's all it takes to write a file
to the file system with some text in it.
Now, let's take a look at reading that file.
So, we're going to go ahead,
we'll remove all the code that just read the file
and you'll see, it's pretty easy.
We just call the readString method.
And the readString method asks us to provide a path
to a file we'd like to read, and that's it.
We were just able to read the file
that was passed into the method.
One line and we got rid of all the code
that was required previously.
All right, let's run our test
to make sure these are working.
We see everything's in place and we can move on
to take a look at our next Java 11 feature.
The feature we're going to look at next
has to deal with the Lambda function and how we can use it.
Java 11 now allows us to use the var keyword.
And typically, this is used for type inference,
but we can now apply it
to the arguments of a Lambda function.
Now, when we do this,
we have to provide it on both arguments
if there are multiple arguments being passed to the Lambda.
And you may wonder why you'd want to do this.
Well, we have to have that type
if we would like to add an annotation.
So, let's imagine we want to add the NonNull annotation.
So, we can shorten up this syntax by using var
instead of the actual type.
And we have to have that type when we use an annotation.
So, it's just a more concise way
of being able to use an annotation
on an argument that is passed to a Lambda.
All right, so we have that in place. Let's go ahead.
We'll kick off our unit test and we can see our test pass.
And now we're going to move on
to take a look at our final feature.
And this one's pretty exciting.
It adds a new HttpClient into Java 11.
And it's one of my favorite features that were added
in this version of the language.
So, if we take a look at the existing implementation,
you'll see there's quite a bit of code,
simply to make an HTTP call to LinkedIn Learning,
and then to be able to process the response that's returned.
Once again, you see we're using BufferedReaders,
InputStreamReaders; it's a lot.
So, what was added to Java 11 was a new HttpClient
that's very similar to Spring's RestTemplate,
if you've ever worked with it.
To use it, we just create a new client
and we can do that by using the HttpClient object.
And you'll find this new HttpClient method, on it.
So, that creates our client.
And then from there,
we're going to go ahead and start building out a request.
So, I'm going to create a request
and there's also a builder that we can use for this.
It's found on the HttpRequest object
and I'ma use the builder.
And from here, we can specify
that we would like to perform a GET request,
and then we have to specify a URI.
Now, you'll notice we have the LinkedIn Learning URL above
so we can use that to get a URI.
And then we simply complete our builder pattern
by calling the build method.
Now, you'll notice this is going to throw an exception.
So, we want to make sure that we pass that up the call stack.
Okay, so, now that we have our client
and we have our request,
we're going to go ahead and make the call
and process the response that's returned.
So, I'm going to declare a variable
and I'll just call it response.
And then we're going to take our client
and use the send method to send our request.
And then we have to supply a BodyHandler
and the BodyHandler instructs the client
for how to process the response coming in.
So, to do that, we're going to use the HttpResponse object
and you'll see the BodyHandler's object on it.
And there's a very simple one, ofString,
and that's simply going to take the HttpResponse
and send it back as a string.
We can go ahead and print out that string
if we'd like to see it in the console.
And then, I'm going to go ahead, I'll remove the implementation
of our old method, since it's gotten a lot more concise
and then we can simply return the statusCode
from the response, in order to complete our implementation.
I'm going to clean up the imports at this point,
then we'll head over to our unit test.
And we will have to pass those exceptions up the call stack.
And let's go ahead, execute our test.
And there we see our HTTP call to LinkedIn Learning
was successful.
So, that's a look at the HttpClient in Java 11.
It's very useful.
And those are just some of the features that you'll get
if you make the jump to Java 11.
You're going to find other nice additions in this version,
such as the Java Flight Recorder
and the ability to compile and run a class in one line,
simply using the Java command.